Introduction
The Fetch API is now available in Node.js, making network requests easier without external libraries. It was added to Node.js core on February 1, 2022.

Why Is This Important?

Previously, Node.js required third-party packages like node-fetch or axios for HTTP requests.
Now, Fetch is built into Node.js, providing a consistent API across frontend and backend.

Evolution of Asynchronous Requests
1998: Internet Explorer introduced XMLHttpRequest to enable web requests.
jQuery Era: Simplified AJAX calls but relied on callbacks.
2015: Fetch API introduced, using Promises to handle requests more cleanly.
Before Fetch in Node.js: Developers relied on request, node-fetch, and axios.
Undici (2018): A fast HTTP client that made Fetch possible in Node.js.
How to Use Fetch in Node.js

Basic Fetch request in Node.js:

fetch("http://example.com/api/endpoint")
  .then(response => response.json())  // Convert response to JSON
  .then(data => console.log(data))    // Log the data
  .catch(error => console.log("Error:", error));  // Handle errors

Benefits of Fetch in Node.js
🚀 No extra packages – No need for node-fetch or axios.
🔄 Cross-platform familiarity – Works the same in browsers and Node.js.
⚡ Faster & more efficient – Uses Undici for improved performance.

Limitations of Fetch
❌ Error handling: Fetch doesn't reject HTTP errors (e.g., 404, 500).
⏳ No built-in timeout: Requires additional logic to handle request timeouts.
📶 No request progress tracking: Unlike Axios, Fetch doesn’t support monitoring upload/download progress.


The Fetch API provides a JavaScript interface for making HTTP requests and processing the responses.

Fetch is the modern replacement for XMLHttpRequest: unlike XMLHttpRequest, which uses callbacks, Fetch is promise-based
and is integrated with features of the modern web such as service workers and Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS).

With the Fetch API, you make a request by calling fetch(), which is available as a global function in both window and 
worker contexts. You pass it a Request object or a string containing the URL to fetch, along with an optional argument to configure the request.

The fetch() function returns a Promise which is fulfilled with a Response object representing the server's response. You can then check the request 
status and extract the body of the response in various formats, including text and JSON, by calling the appropriate method on the response.

2)

The fetch() method of the Window interface starts the process of fetching a resource from the network, returning a promise that is fulfilled once the response is available.

The promise resolves to the Response object representing the response to your request.

A fetch() promise only rejects when the request fails, for example, because of a badly-formed request URL or a network error. A fetch() promise 
does not reject if the server responds with HTTP status codes that indicate errors (404, 504, etc.). Instead, a then() handler must check the Response.ok and/or Response.status properties.

sending more data with fetch 
const headers = {
  'C ontent-Type': 'text/xml',
  'Breaking-Bad': '<3',
};
fetch('https://example.com/', { headers });
